so I reset up my hydroponic garden it
was sitting by the side of my house for
a few months and I've made some
improvements over the years since I
posted the initial video and a lot of
people have liked that video so I
thought I would share some tips with
what's worked and what hasn't and if you
had to build it again how you would
build it differently so one thing that I
realized is really important is the
amount of air so my initial design just
had one air pump and this one has three
each pump is fed into the PVC pipe and
actually have a splitter so there's two
air hoses so that spreads the air
through a big air stone to all the
plants in the past I saw that certain
plants were growing really well in one
area not another area and it was because
of lack of air the other thing that has
become really important that I learned
quickly is that plants need support and
when they get really big they tend to
topple over and this isn't a big deal
for things like lettuce or things like
basil but in the back row I have some
peas and some tomatoes and these are
going to get huge and so this whole
support system in the back I built to
just clip on so it's easy to remove and
store but it's really important the
other thing is just kind of plant
management so in my yard the Sun comes
in this direction and that means that I
want to put the big things in the back
so the tomatoes are on the back row and
they're gonna climb up on that trellis
where as short things are in the front
row
lettuce and basil and medium-sized
plants like peppers and green beans are
in the middle row when the final thing
is just to share what grows well and
what doesn't grow well everything that
I've planted here is kind of
tried-and-true a lot of variety of
tomatoes grow great in here
peas grow great peppers grow great beans
grow great and then basil and herbs like
dill and green onions also grew well
things that I haven't had luck with have
been cucumbers and eggplants so maybe
someone has tips on how to grow them
that would be awesome to hear the final
tips are one problem that I ran into a
lot was that the end caps we're leaking
and I think it had to do with the
sealant used so here I've used a
silicone sealant and that seems to work
really well I also switched over to
these other kind of output valve so that
seemed to be a bit tighter to get a
cleaner seal and I also just put a
little lock on here really simple but
another problem I ran into is there'd be
so much pressure on this that I would
pop open and light would be getting into
there and you can get algae growth and
one other tip is at first I was using
really expensive hydroponic fertilizer
and it doesn't really seem to make a
difference so now I use just this
powdered fertilizer super cheap and it
has the advantage of being really clean
so there's not a lot of particulate
matter and that gums up all the tubing
so using just a the chemical stuff works
well it keeps a water cleaner and I
think that's going to give better oxygen
penetration into the water and into the
roots so thanks for watching everyone
right